This study illustrates the integration of a machine learning algorithm with AnyLogic discrete event simulation (DES) to aid hospital authorities in resource management decisions under specific conditions. It demonstrates the critical role of simulation and machine learning algorithms in predicting patients' length of stay (LOS). By utilizing these predictions, the model calculates resource requirements while considering patient satisfaction, particularly by showing the waiting time for hospital bed availability based on generated scenarios and output variables. The AnyLogic DES was created for a general hospital environment where the patient’s arrival rate taken from several real scenarios that happen in the hospital and the time stamp are generated in AnyLogic environments that includes Entry time into Reception, Entry time into Bed, exit time or patients release time from hospital. In this study, ML and simulation integrated because it is impossible to obtain the number of patients treated, waiting time to get the Bed, and the estimation of resource requirements simultaneously based on the predicted Length of stay (LOS) due to frequent changes in healthcare resource costs. The time stamped simulation generated data on which the authors perform experimentation were also tested in machine learning environments where we have found a good accuracy. Overall, this study has developed a method by applying the Resource– Expenditure – Effectiveness relationship, a widely discussed concept in healthcare systems. We demonstrated the compatibility of machine learning algorithms with the discrete event simulation (DES) model in AnyLogic software through a numerical study. 
